Hey guys, welcome back
to another exciting video.
And in this video I'm going
to show you that how we can use
these API testing clients and tools
in order to build
a very reliable and great APIs.
Okay, so these testing tools
are very, very important
to build an API and they are very
helpful while you're developing.
So there are a lot
of API testing tools.
And don't worry, I'll tell
you that what these does.
So like you have the Postman.
This is the like most famous one.
And I have used the Postman a lot.
But the only problem with them is
that now there is a lot of features
in Postman which you don't need.
So they have made this particular
product a lot bloated.
Okay, so this is a very bloated
product and it requires
you a sign in and all that.
So it was a great
product, I would say.
And it is still a great
product, no doubt in that.
But the only problem
is it's very heavy.
Now then there is a,
alternative that is Isomnia.
Again it was also a great
product, but now it is
very, very, very heavy.
So I don't prefer to use it
or something like that.
And these are not open source.
I mean Isomnia is open source.
But my personal favorite that I
want to show you is one Bruno.
Okay, so Bruno is open source.
Great.
And next is thunderclient.
My personal favorite one is
thunderclient because this is
not a standalone application.
This is a VS code extension
which directly gives you
this UI in the VS code.
So this particular thing
is a game changer.
So what we are going to do is
in my Extensions tab, let's
search for Thunder client.
Okay, so you can see that we
have this Thunder client and I
can just do an installation.
Okay, so let's install thunderclient.
And done.
You can see that there is a new logo.
Now these Thunder clients can
help you, these API clients can
help you to test your APIs.
How what you have to do is you have
to click on this new request.
Cool.
From where do you want
to make the request?
So HTTP.
Hey.
HTTP.
Colon, colon, localhost.
Right on 8000.
I want to make a request.
What kind of request
you want to make?
I want to make a get request.
So you have get, post, put delete,
patch, head options and all.
Okay, so I want to make
a get request and I do.
Do you want to send any
headers to the backend?
Yeah, I just want
to send two headers.
That's it.
And sent.
So what happens when you send, See
your server got a request and this
is what you get as a response.
So you got 200 as a response, 8 byte
size, 7 milliseconds it took
and your server sent three headers.
Nice.
Let's make a post request.
Okay, so you can make a post request.
So you can see that it's
an incoming request.
Let's make a request at slash contact
us and do a send contact me
at this you're getting a 200.
So you can see that I can do all
the testing the that how my APIs
are working using this tool.
Okay, you can add headers, you can
add authorization, you can add body
here if you want to send something.
So everything is available here
and it also creates
a history of everything.
So I mean too good.
Okay, so this is what
we are going to use.
That is Thunder Client.
No installation, no overhead.
But please feel free to use
Postman if you want to.
It is same only if you will see
that if you will install Postman.
So here is where you
can give the URL.
You can select the method,
you can just click on this.
You know there is a send
button on the top which
they have not rendered.
You can do send.
So this is the data that
you are sending and you
will get the response.
So yeah, you can use Postman.
But yeah, for me it is little
bit bloated now and I prefer
Thunder Client over it.
Okay.